---
layout: "docs"
page_title: "Remote Templates"
sidebar_current: "cdktf"
description: "Templates allow you to scaffold a new CDK for Terraform Project. Learn to create your own template."
---

# Remote Templates

When you set up a new project via `cdktf init`, you can supply one of the [built-in templates](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/tree/main/packages/cdktf-cli/templates) (e.g. `typescript` or `python`) or use a custom-built remote template. The template scaffolds a new CDK for Terraform project, creating the necessary directories and files.


## Create Remote Templates

A template is a directory that contains at least a `cdktf.json` file, which is required for the `cdktf` CLI. You can use the library [`sscaff`](https://github.com/awslabs/node-sscaff) to scaffold a new project. The `sscaff` library copies all files into the new project directory while allowing for substitutions and hooks.

### Substitutions

A template can use substitutions for filenames and file content. To specify your own variables, use Hooks (see below).  
In addition to the [built-in substitutions of](https://github.com/awslabs/node-sscaff#built-in-substitutions) `sccaff`, CDK for Terraform supplies variables that you can use in templates:

#### User Input

These variables hold user input. For example, you can use them in project files like `package.json` or similar.

**TODO:** How does this work - do users get asked for input when they run your template?

```typescript
Name: string;
Description: string;
OrganizationName: string;
WorkspaceName: string;
```

#### Versions

These variables contain versions that are relative to the cdktf-cli that scaffolds the template. See the [built-in templates](../../packages/cdktf-cli/templates) as reference of how you can use them.

**TODO:** Can we say more here? Please explain what these do. Do they make sure that the template always uses these versions? What happens if folks don't use these in their template setup - will it always use latest?

```typescript
cdktf_version: string;
constructs_version: string;
npm_cdktf: string;
npm_cdktf_cli: string;
pypi_cdktf: string;
mvn_cdktf: string;
nuget_cdktf: string;
```

### `pre` and `post` Hooks

[Hooks](https://github.com/awslabs/node-sscaff#hooks) allow you to run additional logic before and after the generation of the output.

### Debug Remote Templates

Add `console.log()` statements to your hook functions. CDK for Terraform displays this log output when a user initializes a project from your template.

You can also set the environment flag `CDKTF_LOG_LEVEL` to `debug` to see more debugging output.

**TODO**: Where can folks set the environment variable flag? Also, can we get a full description of what setting this flag gives us? Below, we only have one example but it would be better to give users a complete list of what setting this variable gives them;

The temporary directory into which your zip archive is downloaded. This can help if you're unsure how your archive behaves.

## Distribute Remote Templates

**TODO**: What to Remote Template creators actually have to provide to CDKTF for this to work? Do they just need to have a zip archive with the files and directories for their template in a remote repository somewhere?  What about users who aren't using GitHub?

Currently, `cdktf init` downloads and and extracts a zip archive containing the files for the template. It searches all directories and extracts the directory containing the `cdktf.json` file. This allows you to create content (e.g. a `README.md`) in the root directory that won't appear in the project directory generated by your template.

If you use a Github repository for your template, you can create URLs to your repo as follows:

#### main branch

`https://github.com/<user or organization>/<repo>/archive/refs/heads/main.zip`

#### tag `v.0.0.1`

`https://github.com/<user or organization>/<repo>/archive/refs/tags/v0.0.1.zip`

-> **Note:** You can only specify urls to zip archives, so only url based authentication mechanisms are supported. If you need support for private packages, please [file an issue](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?labels=enhancement%2C+new&template=feature-request.md).

## Use Remote Templates

**TODO**: How do users actually use these generated URLs to use remote templates? Do they put the URL in when they run `init`?

The following [remote templates](./docs/working-with-cdk-for-terraform/remote-templates.md) are maintained by the community and can be used to setup a CDK for Terraform project.